Readme and examples (#100)
rsocket/rsocket-kotlin: README.md

# rsocket-kotlin
RSocket Kotlin multi-platform implementation based on [kotlinx.coroutines](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx.coroutines).

RSocket is a binary protocol for use on byte stream transports such as TCP, WebSockets and Aeron.

It enables the following symmetric interaction models via async message passing over a single connection:

- request/response (stream of 1)
- request/stream (finite stream of many)
- fire-and-forget (no response)
- event subscription (infinite stream of many)

Learn more at http://rsocket.io

## Supported platforms and transports :

> Transports based on [ktor](https://github.com/ktorio/ktor), so it depends on `ktor` engines what supported and what not:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transports are implemented based on [ktor](https://github.com/ktorio/ktor) to ensure Kotlin multiplatform. So it depends on `ktor` engines for available transports and platforms (JVM, JS, Native):
```

Author: Will apply suggested changes while updating readme with configuration setup

* JVM - TCP and WebSocket for both client and server
* JS - WebSocket client only
* [SOON] Native - TCP for both client and server

## Interactions

RSocket interface contains 5 methods:
* Fire and Forget: 

  `suspend fun fireAndForget(payload: Payload)`
* Request-Response:
  
  `suspend requestResponse(payload: Payload): Payload`
* Request-Stream: 
  
  `fun requestStream(payload: Payload): Flow<Payload>`
* Request-Channel: 

  `fun requestChannel(payloads: Flow<Payload>): Flow<Payload>`
* Metadata-Push:
  
  `suspend fun metadataPush(metadata: ByteReadPacket)`

## Using in your projects

> The `master` branch is now dedicated to development of multiplatform reborn of rsocket-kotlin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `master` branch is now dedicated to development of multiplatform rsocket-kotlin.
```

}
```

### Gradle Kotlin DSL:

```kotlin
repositories {
    maven("https://oss.jfrog.org/oss-snapshot-local")
}
dependencies {
    implementation("io.rsocket.kotlin:rsocket-core:0.10.0-SNAPSHOT")
    implementation("io.rsocket.kotlin:rsocket-transport-ktor:0.10.0-SNAPSHOT")

//  client feature for ktor
//    implementation("io.rsocket.kotlin:rsocket-transport-ktor-client:0.10.0-SNAPSHOT")

//  server feature for ktor 
//    implementation("io.rsocket.kotlin:rsocket-transport-ktor-server:0.10.0-SNAPSHOT") 

//  one of ktor engines to work with websockets
//  client engines
//    implementation("io.ktor:ktor-client-js:1.4.0") //js
//    implementation("io.ktor:ktor-client-cio:1.4.0") //jvm
//    implementation("io.ktor:ktor-client-okhttp:1.4.0") //jvm

//  server engines (jvm only)
//    implementation("io.ktor:ktor-server-cio:1.4.0")
//    implementation("io.ktor:ktor-server-netty:1.4.0")
//    implementation("io.ktor:ktor-server-jetty:1.4.0")
//    implementation("io.ktor:ktor-server-tomcat:1.4.0")
}
```

## Usage

### Client WebSocket with CIO ktor engine

```kotlin
//create ktor client
val client = HttpClient(CIO) {
    install(WebSockets)

>     install(RSocketClientSupport) {

Reviewer: I think this is a ciritical point to show the configuration

```
        payloadMimeType = PayloadMimeType("application/json",
          "application/json")

        this.setupPayload = setupPayload

        acceptor = {
          RSocketRequestHandler {
            requestResponse = {
              return it // echo payload
            }
...
          }
        }
        keepAlive = KeepAlive(5.seconds)
        if (debug) {
          plugin = plugin.copy(connection = listOf(::LoggingConnection))
        }
```

Author: Yeah, Will add it

                            emit(Payload("data: $i"))
                        }               
                    }        
                }           
            }       
        }       
    }
}.start(true)
```

### More examples:

- [interactions](examples/interactions) - contains usages of some supported functions
- [multiplatform-chat](examples/multiplatform-chat) - chat implementation with JVM server and JS/JVM client with shared classes
and serializing data using [kotlinx.serialization](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx.serialization)  
- [nodejs-tcp-transport](examples/nodejs-tcp-transport) - implementation of TCP transport for nodejs 

## Reactive Streams Semantics

From [RSocket protocol](https://github.com/rsocket/rsocket/blob/master/Protocol.md#reactive-streams-semantics):

    Reactive Streams semantics are used for flow control of Streams, Subscriptions, and Channels. 
    This is a credit-based model where the Requester grants the Responder credit for the number of PAYLOADs it can send. 
    It is sometimes referred to as "request-n" or "request(n)".

`kotlinx.coroutines` doesn't truly support `request(n)` semantic, but it has `Flow.buffer(n)` operator

> which can be used to archive similar possibilities:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which can be used to achieve something similar:
```

Example:

```kotlin
//assume we have client
val client: RSocket = TODO()

//and stream
val stream: Flow<Payload> = client.requestStream(Payload("data"))

//now we can use buffer to tell underlying transport to request values in chunks
val bufferedStream: Flow<Payload> = stream.buffer(10) //here buffer is 10, if `buffer` operator is not used buffer is by default 64

//now you can collect as any other `Flow`
//just after collection first request for 10 elements will be sent
//after 10 elements collected, 10 more elements will be requested, and so on
bufferedStream.collect { payload: Payload ->
    println(payload.data.readText())
}
``` 

## Bugs and Feedback

> For bugs, questions and discussions please use the [Github Issues](https://github.com/rsocket/rsocket-kotlin/issues).

Reviewer: Slack?

Author: I thought that rsocket slack isn't public, if so, does it make sense?
